---
title: Governance (v1)
layout: default                 # options are `default`, `post`, `opinion`
# permalink: /documents/asdf
published: true
allow_others_to_edit: true      # display the "think you can say it better?" link at the bottom of the file.
allow_comments: true            # displays the `Disqus` comment thingy.
---


## Governance

What are our goals for this document?

#### INCLUSIVENESS 

* Be Inclusive of those who want to help.
* Present opportunities to those people. 

#### COMMITMENT

* People in leadership roles should be held to the commitments associated with their leadership role.
* If they are not able to perform those goals, we should find a different way for them to help.

#### ACCOUNTABILITY

* Leaders are not “above the law”. 
* If you have concerns with someone in a leadership role, we will listen to those concerns.
* We will exercise discretion regarding the severity of the concern - not all concerns are of the same severity.
* If you want to participate in a process of mediation that encourages growth in the person you have concerns with, we will support that process. If you don’t want to participate in that process, you don’t have to.
* Our goal regarding people that have had concerns expressed about them is this. We want to provide opportunities for those people to grow and improve. And then we want to let them re-engage with leadership roles if they decide to do so.

#### EMPOWERMENT

* Leaders should help other people grow and become more involved.

#### DIVERSITY

* Diversity is critical in both the community and the leadership - we will foster diversity.

#### KEEP IT FUN / GET SHIT DONE

* Keep these in balance.
* Working sessions are important - let’s do them, but let’s not make this a fucking job.

#### FLEXIBILITY OF ROLES

* We’re not the court system. We don’t have highly structured roles. Let’s be open to changing up how things are done to suit the people who are doing the work.

#### Open questions:

* Are we consensus or are we democratic? How do we select leaders?
* Should some of these “accountability of leadership” thoughts be moved over to the “consent problem roadmap” document? Maybe as additional bullet points
