---
title: The Consent Talk (v1)
layout: default                 # options are `default`, `post`, `opinion`
# permalink: /documents/asdf
published: true
allow_others_to_edit: true      # display the "think you can say it better?" link at the bottom of the file.
allow_comments: true            # displays the `Disqus` comment thingy.
---

## Consent Orientation for First Timers

What is the Libertine Society?: A community oriented, sexually exploratory space. Libertine parties are somewhere in the middle of orgies, dance parties, art parties, and mini-burns. We come into these spaces with the intention of improving the experience for others.

## Consent

For Libertine parties to exist as safe, exciting, exploratory spaces we need to have a strong shared understanding of consent. We use the idea of mutually enthusiastic affirmative consent. Let’s break it down: Mutually enthusiastic means that all parties engaging in an interaction are not just willing, they’re excited and independently interested in starting or continuing an interaction. Affirmative means that all parties have said yes, not just not said no. There’s no more important place to apply this principle than in sexual interactions. **Consent in our community is about communicating how we are feeling and the things we want, not just what we’ll allow.  If you’re ever unsure about your partner’s enthusiasm, it’s on you to check in.** What does that look like in practice?

* **Asking open-ended questions** rather than yes/no questions elicits more complex answers and gives both people more information about the interaction. “How would you feel about me kissing you?” vs. “Can I kiss you?” This is a practiced skill. When in doubt ask simply.
* **Taking no’s for an answer:** How participants in this space accept rejection is a foundation of our consent practice. When someone tells us about a boundary they have, they are giving us their trust, and the knowledge we need to not make them uncomfortable. The best response to hearing a “no” or a “not feeling it” is to thank that person! Feeling grateful when someone gives you the information you need is a goal we can all work towards.
* **First time’s the charm!** Don’t ask twice: If you ask someone for their consent and they don’t enthusiastically give it, do not ask again. We’re doing everything we can to cultivate an environment where saying no is easy, but that doesn’t mean anyone should have to do it twice.
* **Be humble and accept other’s experiences:** No one is ever finished learning about relationships, and consent, and how to understand other human beings. If someone offers you a correction on your behavior, try to work through feeling defensive and get to a place where you can really hear them.
* **Share your experiences to keep the community learning, growing, and safe:** If an interaction occurs that you don’t feel great about, but doesn’t seem like a big deal.We encourage you to talk to someone about it. Hosts and Ambassadors are great people for this. We want to address people with problematic behavior when the interaction is at 7/10, not a 0/10. This isn’t about getting people in trouble, it’s about keeping everyone accountable as a community and helping everyone learn and grow.
* **Engage directly in conflict! (If you can)** Everyone has the responsibility to listen respectfully if you want to communicate something that didn’t work for you. These conversations aren’t always fun, but they usually go a lot better than we think they will. If you want help having this conversation, ask a host or ambassador!

## Playing at Libertine Events

### Kink

Libertine parties are kink friendly but not kink centered. That means that everyone coming into the space is not consenting to witness super intense scenes. If you want to have an scene involving something like consensual non-consent, strong abusive language, potentially triggering role-play, etc. a Libertine party is probably not the space for that. If you aren’t sure if your scene is over the line, check in with a host or ambassador.

### Sharing Space

Sometimes Libertines are crowded! How do you negotiate these interactions?

* **Separate beds in a fucking space.** You don’t need to check with people if you are in an explicit fucking space and on a separate surface, but you still can! “Is it cool if we share the space? :) Should provoke smiles and yes’s!
* **Shared surfaces: Beds, Couches, Floors, etc.** Anytime you’re sharing a surface with someone you should check in with them! This goes for sexual and non-sexual settings, and sexual and non-sexual spaces!
* **Voyeurism:** We aren't trying to cultivate an atmosphere that encourages explicit voyeurism at Libertines. If you want to watch someone perform a sexual act you need their enthusiastic consent! Now I know you're asking: "But what if there's people fucking all around me! Am I supposed to walk around with my eyes closed until I get all of their consent?" No. Here are some questions to consider:
  * **Are you in their space?** This depends on the people and depends on the activity. If you’re all the way across a room you’re probably not in someone’s space, if you can reach out and touch them you definitely are.
  * **What is your relationship with them?** Have you talked about watching each other before? If just your partner/friend has consented to you watching them that doesn’t extend to people you haven’t had that conversation with who are involved in a sexual situation with them.
  * **What is your intention?** There's a big difference between seeing and watching. Are you doing anything else or does the scene have your full attention?

### STI Practices

You must talk about STI status before playing. This means talking about any active STI’s you have, and what your testing and protection practices are.

* We encourage you to have conversations about STI’s as early as possible! If you have genital HPV you’re not violating someone’s consent by making out with them without disclosing, but by having that conversation early and often we can help destigmatize and educate everyone in our community better!
* Things to be aware of: HPV, HSV, unknown statuses. Oral.
* We are a high knowledge, low judgment community: People of all STI statuses attend Libertines and have a great time. Be open and honest and respect your partner’s consent and autonomy! If someone has boundaries (barriers, activities) be gracious!
* Complaining about using barriers is a really quick way to make people upset.

### Substance use

As a consent focused group, substance use is a complicated issue.

* Libertines are very stimulating environments. In particular if you are going for the first time, consider not using substances. You’ll definitely have an altered enough experience just being in the space.
* If you do decide to use substances: Keep it light. Take half or less of what you’d normally do.
* Please don’t use unfamiliar substances at Libertines. You can’t reliably control your level of intoxication with new substances.
* **Highly intoxicated people cannot give consent.** Keep your substance use at a level where you are absolutely in control of your actions and boundaries. Be aware of other people’s level of intoxication! If someone appears highly intoxicated do not engage them sexually. If you see a situation that appears to involve people who are too intoxicated to be consenting, please inform a host or ambassador. You’re not a sheriff, but we appreciate help keeping people safe.

### Participation

The Libertine parties happens because EVERYONE here shows up wanting to give to and collaborate with the people around them. We jump in and help. We cook for each other. We clean up whenever we can. We step up and pitch in - that’s what makes this place special. Look for ways you can help! Here are some ways you can get involved:

* **Volunteer:** Every Libertine event needs lots of volunteers to run it. Volunteering can be something as simple as coming to help set up for the party or break down. Typically parties are held at people’s homes and it’s on all of us to leave their home as we found it!
* **Create:** Libertine Events tend to have a strong aesthetic component. Do you have a piece of art you want to make that fits the theme? Wall decorations, props, even installations are amazing contributions. Talk to the leads team about big projects and potentially getting a budget!
* **Engage:** Activities are welcome at Libertine parties. In the past we’ve have things like someone custom making sexy necklaces using a laser cutter, face painting, body painting, genital portraits, running a massage table,, being a human plate, leading ice breakers, etc. Talk to the leads team about your idea!
* **Donate:** Libertines are run on a donation basis. We ask for a small donation at the door, but we’re always happy to accept your generous gifts! Also, gifts don’t necessarily need to be financial. Do you have some item you think the Libertine Society could use? Stage lights, decorations, sound equipment, !!!sexy toys!!! Are all welcome.