---
title: Mission and Values (v1)
layout: default                 # options are `default`, `post`, `opinion`
# permalink: /documents/asdf
published: true
allow_others_to_edit: true      # display the "think you can say it better?" link at the bottom of the file.
allow_comments: true            # displays the `Disqus` comment thingy.
---


## What is the Libertine Society?

A community oriented, sexually exploratory space. Libertine parties are
somewhere in the middle of orgies, dance parties, art parties, and mini-burns.
We come into these spaces with the intention of improving the experience for
others.


## Our Values (TODO - expand these with a paragraph each)

### Consent

We are a community that believes in consent as a critical, mandatory, enthusiastic prerequisite to all forms of contact: physical (both sexual and nonsexual), verbal, and mental.

### Participation

We create this experience together

Like Ms. Frizzle says: take chances, get messy, have fun! The space we create is not a performance for spectators, but an ever-shifting experience that you (yes, YOU) contribute to. We are excited to see what you bring, be it art, dance, jokes, ideas, food, perspectives, lessons, costumes or anything else uniquely you.

All that probably sounds a little intense, a little vulnerable, a little wild and a little tender... it is! We're seeking to honor the vulnerability and bravery of our participants by showing up ourselves-- not to watch from the sidelines, but to participate.

### Sex Positivity

First and foremost, we want to say that not only is this space welcoming of all sexualities, gender expressions, orientations, and identities. Sex positivity, to us, means to empower one another to feel good in their bodies, experiences, and expressions: free of shame, guilt, criticism, or condemnation. Our sex positivity explicitly welcomes asexual/aromantic/ace-spectrum folks. While our spaces are often sexual, your body is your own and we want you to feel safe and joyful at our events and in our spaces.

### Community Focused

"We" aren't a business or a chapter or a vacant lot: we're a community! We evolve, we shift, we expand and are committed to continual growth. We require participation, communication, collaboration, and a love for "under construction" signs doesn't hurt, either.

If you're here, we want to make space for you to contribute, we want to feel your presence in what we create together.

### Personal Growth and Exploration

While we're growing as a community, our community members (that's you!) are growing as people. We are excited to create the kind of space that facilitates and celebrates growth and curiosity. We want to be the launch pad for your daring adventures in the chronicles of you! Get down with your zany, delightful, wild, loving, amazing self-- you're surrounded by people who are puzzling out their own universes.

### Vulnerability

Let's face it: we couldn't do anything without vulnerability. From rejection to humiliation, failure to panic: there's a lot to risk-- and even more to gain-- in putting yourself out there. In being honest, in asking for what you want, in trying something new, in confronting a fear, in naming a desire... you open yourself up to nearly endless possibilities!

We can't guarantee your future, but we can guarantee that you won't be vulnerable alone. With your help, we are fostering a culture of vulnerability, and reaching greater heights than we could if we stayed where it was always perfectly comfortable.

### Play

Communities are hard work-- asking you to bring authenticity, vulnerability, creativity, participation, and sometimes a big part of your heart-- is not always easy. Play is important, play is where you try on new experiences, ideas, and skills. Play can be the doodle on a napkin that turns into a finished portrait, the cathartic wildness that helps you hear your own heartbeat again, the reminder that within us is the immense and invaluable ability to be radically silly.

## Brainstorming area

* Kindness
* Creativity / Playfulness
* Inclusion / lack of prejudice / diversity
* Not a business / noncommercial
* Intimacy / Authenticity / genuine connection / vulnerability
* Investing in the future
* Supporting people in growth and change through bad stuff they have done, if they are willing to participate in that.
