---
title: Code of Conduct          # page title
layout: default                 # options are `default`, `post`, `opinion`
# permalink: /documents/asdf    # optional. If commented out, will use the file path as the url.
published: true                 # Is page visible to people?
allow_others_to_edit: true      # display the "think you can say it better?" link at the bottom of the file.
allow_comments: true            # displays the `Disqus` comment thingy.
---


## Code of Conduct

For Libertine parties to exist as safe, exciting, exploratory spaces we need to have a strong shared understanding of consent. We want to model and share the idea of mutually enthusiastic affirmative consent. Let’s break it down: Mutually enthusiastic means that all parties engaging in an interaction are not just willing, they’re excited and independently interested in starting or continuing an interaction. Affirmative means that all parties have said yes, not just not said no. There’s an adage from a popular book on polyamory which says “if it’s not a Fuck Yes! It’s a no.” There’s no more important place to apply this principle than in sexual interactions. **Consent in our community is about communicating how we are feeling and the things we want, not just what we’ll allow.**  What does that look like in practice? If you’re ever unsure about your partner’s enthusiasm, it’s on you to check in. What does that look like in practice?

* **Asking open-ended questions** rather than yes/no questions elicits more complex answers and gives both people more information about the interaction. “How would you feel about me kissing you?” vs. “Can I kiss you?” In one situation the person says yes or no and it’s easy for that to be the end of the communication. In the other, “I feel great about that!/I’m not really feeling into that” Is a lot more than just permission.
* **Taking no’s for an answer:** How we as a community agree to accept rejection is a foundation of our consent practice. When you receive a negative response to asking someone for their consent, it’s important to try your best to see that as the gift that it is. The last thing any of us want to do is make our friends, acquaintances, partner’s etc, uncomfortable. When someone tells us about a boundary they have, they are giving us their trust, and the ability to not make them uncomfortable. The best response to hearing a “no” or a “not feeling it” is to thank that person! Feeling grateful and happy when someone gives you the information you need not to harm them is a goal we can all work towards.
* **First time’s the charm! Don’t ask twice:** If you ask someone for their consent and they don’t enthusiastically give it, don’t ask again. Particularly not in that setting! Even if you’ve had similar consenting interactions before with that person, that doesn’t mean they’ll continue to want that. We’re doing everything we can to cultivate an environment where saying no is easy, but that doesn’t mean anyone should have to do it twice.
* **Be humble and accept other’s experiences:** The Libertine Society is place for all of us to learn, and continue learning. No one is ever finished learning about relationships, and consent, and how to understand other human beings. If someone offers you a correction on your behavior, try to work through feeling defensive and get to a place where you can really hear them.
* **Share your experiences** to keep the community learning, growing, and safe:  If an interaction occurs that you don’t feel great about, but doesn’t seem like a big deal. We encourage you to talk to someone about it. Hosts and Ambassadors are great people for this. We want to address people with problematic behavior when the interaction is a 7/10, not a 0/10. You reporting feeling a little uncomfortable with someone but not being totally sure why is actually very helpful! Maybe you’re not the only person to have that experience. Maybe the person doesn’t know they’re making people uncomfortable and is super willing to try and change whatever behavior is causing problems. This isn’t about getting people in trouble, it’s about keeping everyone accountable as a community and helping everyone learn and grow.
* **If you’re comfortable, engage directly!** The Libertine Society is a great place to flex your communication muscles. Everyone has the responsibility to listen respectfully if you want to communicate something that didn’t work for you. These conversations aren’t fun, but they usually go a lot better than we think they will. If you want help arranging a meeting to have this conversation, or some advice on how to communicate in this situation please reach out. We have lots of resources to offer!
