---
title: Dealing with Negative Experiences (v1)  # page title
layout: default             # options are `default`, `post`, `opinion`
# permalink: /documents/something_something
published: true             # Is page visible to people?
allow_others_to_edit: true  # display the "think you can say it better?" link at the bottom of the file.
allow_comments: true        # displays the `Disqus` comment thingy.
---

## Dealing with Negative Experiences

There are few different types of negative experiences you can have with someone.
This document is aiming to be a roadmap of how we want to deal with them.

Negative experiences happen. As a community we have two obectives in handling
negative experiences. First and foremost, we want to maintain a physically and
emotionally safe community. Second, we want people who mess up to get
actionable feedback and use that to adjust their actions.

We are practicing a radical way of interacting with each other that is
different than the dominant culture outside our spaces. There is a learning
curve and people can make mistakes without realizing they’ve done so. That
being said, if there is a severe transgression or a person continues
problematic behavior despite being informed and asked to change, or if someone
is unwilling to accept feedback they will not be welcome at our events.

Please understand that providing negative feedback to the libertine society is
an important part of how we keep ourselves safe. It also gives the person you
had that experience an opportunity to grow, and it will not necessarily lead
to their removal from our group.


## You’ve had an uncomfortable experience with someone, but your consent wasn’t violated.

Here are a few examples of uncomfortable experiences, where your consent wasn’t necessarily violated:

* Someone was hitting on you in a way that made you feel uncomfortable.
* You had a sexual experience with someone. Neither of you talked about your STI status, and now you feel icky about that.
* You were in a cuddle pit, and someone was in your personal space more than you wanted.
* Someone made a joke that rubbed you the wrong way.
* Someone made a comment that feels objectifying to you.
* You were frustrated by behavior like someone hogging the conversation.

We encourage you to give feedback to the person involved.

* If you have the clarity, energy, and willingness - you can give this feedback at the event or a few days later.
* Tell the person that you have had a negative experience, and ask them if they are willing to hear your feedback.
* Share your experience and how it made you feel.
  * It will be their responsibility to hear you respectfully.
  * It is also your responsibility to speak respectfully.
* If the person is unwilling to hear you, please talk to a libertine lead.
  * It is each Libertine’s responsibility to be willing to receive feedback about their actions. If the person is unwilling to receive feedback, we will address the situation proactively.
* If you need support having this conversation, please talk to a libertine lead - we would love to help.
  * We would be glad to talk your experiences over with you.
  * We want to validate your experience
  * We would love to help you get to a place where you can have a conversation with the person.
* If you don’t feel safe giving feedback to the person involved, please talk to a libertine lead.
  * We will talk to them for you.
* Regardless of which of these avenues have been followed - we will expect this person to be receptive, to validate your experience, and to adjust their behavior in the future.

So! Someone wants to talk to you about something you did that has made them uncomfortable

* First step - take a deep breath.
  * No one is ever finished learning about relationships, communication and consent.
  * This is an opportunity for you to grow.
  * If you need support having this conversation, please talk to a Libertine Society Lead. We want to help you.
* Be open to feedback.
  * It is your responsibility to hear the person respectfully.
  * It is also their responsibility to communicate with you respectfully.
* Respect the other person’s experience as valid.
  * Don’t be defensive
  * Recognize that the intent of your actions is not the same as their experience of the impact of your actions.
* Thank them for sharing.
* Look for opportunities for growth and change.
  * If you are unsure of what change to make or how to make it, talk to your community or to a Libertine Society Lead. We want to help you.


## YOU HAVE EXPERIENCED A MINOR CONSENT VIOLATION

The nature of these minor consent violations is that they are almost
understandable. You could see how maybe the person thought that action was ok.
And that’s why it’s important for us to talk about this stuff - because we
don’t want to let these minor issues erode our trust in each other.

Here are a few examples of minor consent violations:
* Someone caressed your shoulder intimately without asking first.
* You were cuddling with someone, and they gave you a kiss on the neck without asking first.
* Someone asks if you want to make out. You say no thanks. They ask again an hour later.
* You are having sex with someone, and they start spanking you without asking.
* You played spin the bottle with some people and made out with one person a few times as a part of the game. After the game, they make out with you again without asking.

You’ve had a negative experience like one of the above with someone. For experiences like this, we are concerned for your safety and we are also concerned for other community members safety.

* If at all possible, we want to address these issues right when they happen in order to prevent further problems at the event.
  * If you are able to in the moment, please talk to the person immediately.
  * If you cannot talk to them immediately, please talk to an Ambassador or Libertine Society volunteer. We will help you have the conversation, or we can have the conversation for you.
* If time has gone by, that’s fine. Please still have the conversation with them.
* No matter what, make sure you tell a Libertine Society Lead.
  * Minor consent violations are taken seriously.
  * We want for this to be a growth opportunity for the person involved.
  * If there are repeated reports about someone, they may be asked to leave.

If someone, either the person involved or a libertine society lead, talks to you about a minor consent violation you should:

* Be receptive and hear what they are telling you.
* Apologize
* Ask yourself whether this is a pattern and who it may have affected? Consider reaching out to them.
* Recognize that it was the way you did a thing, not necessarily the thing itself and think about ways to do that better in the future.
* If you are unsure about any of these steps, please talk to a Libertine Society lead, we are here to help!
* Know that we are all learning and able to make mistakes. We are asking you to grow and learn, not trying to punish you.

What will libertine leads do upon receiving a report of a minor consent violation:

* If the person who reported the violation hasn’t communicated with the other party, or wants help doing so, address this immediately.
* Our first goal is make sure that further similar behavior does not occur at this event.
* Bring up any reports of this kind at a leads meeting:  this ensures that a few key community members are aware of the situation and can assess the person involved and whether the behavior is a pattern.
* Do a check-in/follow up sometime in the following 2 weeks with both parties.
  * Do they feel that situation was resolved?
  * Are there any additional steps they would like taken?
  * Do either of them need support or accountability help?

## YOU HAVE EXPERIENCED A MAJOR CONSENT VIOLATION

The difference between a minor and a major consent violation can be the emotional experience of the person on the receiving end. Think about this as the difference between a breach of the rules in our space, vs. a breach of your personal consent. In the minor consent violations, many of those were potentially desirable actions for the receiving party, but the way the person initiated the action wasn’t acceptable to the receiver. In a major consent violation both the method and the action itself are problematic. If you experienced what you think might be a minor consent violation, but you are extremely bothered/triggered/feeling unsafe because of it, we would deem that a major consent violation. Actions up to and including sexual assault fall into this category, but it’s important to know that something doesn’t have be an assault for the Libertine Society to consider it a major consent violation.

* Someone you don’t know on the dance floor starts making out with you no conversation.
* You’re making out with someone, they initiate penetration without verbal consent.
* Someone joins in a group sex situation without getting the verbal enthusiastic consent of all parties.
* Unwanted Choking/slapping/hitting someone without getting verbal consent.
* Touching someone who is blindfolded or tied up without getting consent.
* Someone starting BDSM behavior that they have done consensually with you in the past, but not negotiating this time.
* Misrepresentation or omissions in regards STI status.
* Abusive language or communication

For the safety of everyone in the community, either tell us directly or get someone trusted to communicate the situation to us. Beyond that the process is under your control.  We are here to provide support, and based on the information you give us will also engage with the offending party in a way the seems appropriate.

* For Major consent violations, it’s very likely a party will at a minimum be asked not to attend Libertine Events until the situation is resolved to the satisfaction of the survivor.
* A survivor’s wishes have priority in terms of how we interact with the other party.
* The survivor and libertine leadership will determine whether the person in question is willing and able to take accountability for their actions in a way that will ensure the safety of the community.
  * If they are willing to do this, the Libertine Society will support this process as much as possible.
  * If we feel that they are unable or unwilling to do this, they will be barred from attending future libertine events.
* A goal of our process is to balance transparency and the need for privacy in a way that protects the community and respects the individuals involved.

## TO DO

* Major Consent violations section
* What the violator should do
* What the libertines leads should do when receiving a report
* What the survivor should do
